[Music]
so picture this your friends waving at
you from the other side of the street
you turn your head to smile and wave
back but ouch
no no bigger ouch yeah that's it there's
a sharp pain in your neck is it time to
start panicking maybe not actually more
than 45% of working people have problems
with their necks but before you rush to
the doctor try this set of neck
exercises first step 1 relaxing the
muscles sit down comfortably on a chair
with your back straight position your
hands at the base of your skull and
lower your chin towards your chest with
your hands apply some gentle pressure on
your head until you feel the muscles in
the back of your neck stretching stop
pushing downward right before the
pressure becomes uncomfortable do this
exercise for 30 seconds
step 2 improving shoulder mobility once
again sit down comfortably on a chair or
a mat keeping your back straight bring
your right arm up to your right ear and
bend it at the elbow so that your palm
is touching your back then bend your
left arm at the elbow so that your palm
is facing your back as well and finally
expand your chest and clasp your palms
together behind your neck you might not
be able to clasp your hands on your
first try but don't worry with time
you'll improve while you're doing this
exercise remember to keep your spine
straight stretch your shoulders for 30
seconds on each side step number 3
increasing blood flow stand with your
back straight your feet shoulder-width
apart and your arms at your sides
without bending your arms pull your
shoulders up to your ears slowly and
gently and keep them in this position
for several seconds then lower your
shoulders to the initial position repeat
this exercise for 30 seconds
step for releasing our muscles stand
with your right side facing the wall and
your right foot positioned in front of
the left one remember to keep your back
straight turn your head to the right so
that you're looking at the wall slowly
and carefully lift your right arm over
your shoulder without bending it turn
your upper body and place your right
hand on the wall behind you at the
shoulders height after that still
keeping your right arm straight turn
your head and look in front of you then
gently open your chest until you feel
your right shoulder and chest muscles
start to stretch stay in this position
for about 30 seconds and repeat the same
exercise on the other side step 5
working on posture sit down comfortably
on a chair or a mat looking straight
ahead with your shoulders slightly
expanded and your back straight
depending on which side of your neck is
bothering you more place your right or
left index and middle fingers on your
chin then push your chin forward as far
as you can without moving your back and
hold it in that position for several
seconds after that gently press on your
chin with your fingers and push it back
as far as it will go
this movement is supposed to create a
double chin so when you see it don't
freak out hold your double chin for
several seconds then return to the
initial position repeat this exercise
for 30 seconds
step 6 get rid of muscle spasms sit down
comfortably with your back straight
raise your arms over your head bend them
slightly at the elbow and bring your
palms together after that keeping your
jaw line parallel to the floor slowly
turn your head to the left as far as it
will go keep it in this position for
several seconds then just to slowly turn
it to the right keep doing this exercise
for 30 seconds
step 7 strengthening your shoulders
stand straight with your arms at your
sides and your feet shoulder-width apart
lift your arms over your head and bring
your palms together remember that your
elbows shouldn't be bent with your
straight arms still above your head
stretch your spine upward and stay in
this position for several seconds then
slowly lower your arms bend them at the
elbow and move them behind your back as
far as they'll go as if you were trying
to bring your elbows together your
shoulder blades are supposed to draw as
close to each other as possible hold
this position for several seconds then
raise your arms above your head again
repeat this exercise for one minute
naturally there are numerous causes for
neck pain and well most of them aren't
serious in some cases you might need to
see your doctor to figure out what's
going on anyway some of the most common
reasons for neck pain are sleeping in an
uncomfortable position stress and worry
and incorrect posture if this is the
case the set of exercises I just told
you about will help this short workout
will increase the strength of your neck
muscles relieve stiffness and help you
to move your neck as freely as before
the main thing to remember though is to
do all the exercises slowly and avoid
sudden moves at all costs
it's normal to feel some discomfort or a
dull ache while doing the exercises but
if you suddenly experience sharp pain or
your existing pain gets worse
immediately stop your neck workout and
consult your doctor you can also try out
the following tips that might help you
get rid of neck pain all together get
rid of pain oh you guys are so funny
alright sleep on your back in fact
that's the best position to let your
whole spine rest well while you're
sleeping on top of that you may try
lying on your back with a pillow placed
under each arm it'll take all the strain
off your neck if you won't budge and
sleeping on your side is the only way
you feel comfortable your pill
shouldn't be too plump the best pillow
height is 4 to 6 inches depending on how
dense it is speaking about pillows and I
was your neck pain may actually
originate from sleeping on an unsuitable
one pick a pillow that will mold to the
shape of your head and neck your head
shouldn't be positioned too high
otherwise your neck will string the best
idea is to buy a memory foam pillow but
one filled with feathers will also work
however in this case you'll need to
replace it once a year work on your
posture to make sure yours is good
enough check that your ears are right
over your shoulders and your hips are
aligned with your shoulders as well it
might surprise you but as soon as you
start working on your posture most of
your neck pains might disappear do not
use your neck as a holder I know I know
when your hands are occupied elsewhere
it's too easy to bend your neck and with
its help hold the phone in the crook of
your shoulder unfortunately by doing
this you put a strain on your poor neck
which can lead to bad pains later by the
way holding stuff under your chin works
the same way when you sit at the table
or at your computer make sure that you
keep your arms close to your body also
try to align your wrists arms and thighs
parallel to the floor adjust your chair
first of all it should be at the right
height for your thighs to be parallel to
the floor secondly there must be several
inches of free space between the chair
and the back of your knees if not place
a pillow behind your back to move
yourself forward also the arm rests of
your chair should comfortably support
your arms if you bend over or feel as if
your arms hang down you automatically
tense your shoulders the result is
annoying neck pain try to watch yourself
at all times when you're reading or
working on the computer you often
unconsciously tense your shoulders which
causes serious neck pain so feel
yourself tensing relax those shoulders
adjust the position of your computer
whichever device you are using you need
to have a correct viewing angle by that
I mean the screen should be at your eye
level so that you don't need to bend
your neck up or down for example if
you're using your computer while sitting
on the couch put a pillow on your lap
and place your computer on top of it if
you can't survive without your
smartphone like several other billions
of people on this planet your neck pain
may be the result of hunching over while
you're looking at your cell phone to
deal with this problem try to hold your
phone at eye level at all times well I
admit it may look a little strange but
after all your health is more important
than your image right there are even
some cool apps which makes sure you use
the right angle to look at your phone
now do you know any other ways to deal
with neck pain let me know down in the
comments if you learned something new
today then give this video a like and
share it with a friend but hey don't be
a pain in the neck I mean don't go
anywhere just yet we have two thousand
cool videos for you to check out all you
have to do is pick the left or right
video click on it and enjoy stay on the
bright side of life